We're machine stripping
at the moment.
I have to keep an eye
on what the machine's doing,
in case he gets near
any significant archaeology.
The skill involved in using
one of the machines is amazing.
because they've got a machine
into archaeology,
and around archaeology, without
knowing what they're looking at,
follow a series of instructions,
but also manage the material
they're machining away,
so they don't block themselves in
or run out of space.
The machine driver
spends a lot of time
making sure the machine's level.
At the moment he's just clearing
where his tracks are gonna stand.
Because the machine will rotate
round 360 degrees,
and the arm will move up and down,
and the machine can't do anything other
than that to level itself.
So, they'll spend a great deal of time
making sure they're perfectly flat,
before they start pulling the soil back.
The big area that we're working in,
it was cleared in the 1930s,
and possibly again in the 1950s.
It seems they've machined
a great big terrace,
a flat terrace, into the area
across where we're looking,
before they built the territorial army
structures that were here before.
I think that was the 1950s.
Just a little bit, mate.
So, in the process of that
machine strip over 50 years ago,
they've actually disturbed
or completely removed,
a huge amount of archaeology.
The job that we've got today,
is to try and strip off
enough of the disturbance,
so we can see the archaeology,
but try not to destroy too much
of the archaeology in the process.
It is quite difficult.
Just a little bit there.
Now, I've got another person
helping me as we go along.
Because as you'll see, the machine
will leave bits of soil behind,
on either side of the bucket
as it's pulling back.
It's not possible for him to do
a completely perfect pull,
because the blade's so wide,
and he has to try and keep it
as flat as possible.
Now, the archaeology
isn't necessarily flat,
and there's some places
where we've already seen
that things have been
pushed in deeper,
probably in the 1950s,
when they'd been disturbing
the whole area.
So, the bits in between,
we shovel away straightaway,
and it stops the rain
turning it into mud,
and it stops it washing into the
features that we're concerned with.
So, I'm gonna carry on
in this whole area,
taking it to join up
with the H1 excavations,
that we've nearly completed already.
And ideally, we're gonna have a lovely
series of archaeological deposits,
that go from the medieval period,
where I'm stood,
all the way back to the Roman period
in the far corner.
So, I'll carry on
watching the machine...
..picking out the odd find,
and then making sure we get enough of
the disturbance out of the way.